Alright, so we're going to take a look
at a couple of gotchas with the project
Lombok here. And so far we've looked at
all the great stuff about project Lombok
and if you've gone and run the
application, you're going to see an error.
So let me show you that right. Now I'm
going to bring up the application in
Spring Boot and stepping through this
because you're likely to see this
at some point. This is a fairly easy
error. So you see we're again this long
long stack trace here scrolling back up
to the top and right here, we're getting
a stack overflow error. And it's with the
hash code and what's happening is it's
really not a fault of project Lombok. It's just how things are working when it
goes in and creates that hash code
because we have those bi-directional
references. Project Lombok isn't happy
about that. It's not Lombok, it's the hash
code implementation. It creates
essentially a circular reference when we
have those bi-directional references and
it gets in an endless loop. So what we
need to do is we need to exclude those
properties from the hash code. And I'll
show you exactly how to do that right
now. So the first one we want to take
take a look at is Category and we have
the Data annotation there and we can
come in and what we want to do is
override the EqualsAndHashcode
annotation. And we're doing that because
when we do that, even though Data
includes that, this allows us
to set some properties on it. So what we
want to do is use exclude and this is
going to take an array and we're going
to say, tell it to exclude recipes. Spell that right. So this will tell it to
exclude from EqualsAndHashcode the
recipes property and we need to do this
on the other entities as well. So I got some notes that I'm
looking at. And on
this we want to do recipe. Then on Notes we
need to do it as well. Okay I think we
can just do the one side of the
relationship here. I'm going to go ahead
and try to run Spring Boot now and see
if this comes up normally. So starting up
Spring Boot, we can see it's starting, going for the
get through. So yeah we're on port 8080
listening. Let's come over to Chrome, see
if we can refresh the page okay and we
can see that it is in fact refreshing
okay. So we are working again. So just
just to recap what's happening there,
we're seeing effectively a circular
reference get created because of the
bi-directional relationship and I'm
excluding out notes in category so we
can exclude out recipe. So it doesn't
switch back on itself in that hashcode
function and cause the the stack
overflow here. So kind of an interesting
little problem that we encounter but it
is how project Lombok is working to
generate that hashcode function. If we
are going to depend on the hashcode and
equals, we want to probably inspect the
Lombok code to see exactly what it's
doing, make sure that it's working for
our entities the way we'd expect it
to. So having a code generator for you
doesn't always know everything. So
just be aware of that. Okay I'm one other
problem and it's kind of a strange one
because it's a intermittent and I'm not
seeing it all the time but I got the
exception up here. You may encounter this
as well. That's why I'm appending to this
video this problem here. You can see here
we have a lazy initialization exception
and what's happening is in our bootstrap
class, we are doing this getRecipes()
method and what's going to happen in
that, each time we go in and out of the
Spring Data JPA
repositories, we are going in and out of
a Hibernate transaction. So the lazy
collections need to get initialized within
a transaction and within
the same Hibernate session. And that the
problem is we're getting this thrown
because we are getting it outside of
that and I find it kind of curious that
it's happening this way because I do run
sometimes and sometimes not. So I prefer
to see things that are binary and their
failure not kind of random. But I
think it's just a timing issue with the
threads and how it's working in the
transactional context. Now a very easy
way around this, is we are going to utilize
a new annotation called transactional.
And this is part of the Spring Framework
we really haven't gotten into
transactions, but by doing this on the
application event, now we're going to
direct the Spring Framework to create a
transaction around this method. So now
everything is going to happen in the
same transactional context and we won't
see this lazy initialization exception. So remember any properties and the
many relationships are going to be
initialized lazily and that's what's
happening with Hibernators. It's going to
go out there and when we call that
getter on that, you can see that's
happening with inside the hash code
function which part of the stuff from
project Lombok and it gets
thrown right here. So kind of strange how
it is in fact happening but by adding in
that transactional, we'll get everything
running within the same transactional.
Context transactional boundaries, we're
going to expand them out to the top of
this method here and that will clear up
that error. So like I said you may or may
not encounter this in development
and testing. It was kind of intermittent,
so kind of a strange one. But easy enough
to get around. All we got to do is add
that transactional scope.